
.TH TRANSCEND 1 "Date: 2016/08/04 15:37:21 " NXP  "Internal Use Only"

.SH NAME
Transcend \- NXP's Managed File Transfer tool


.SH SYNOPSIS
.PD 0
trans -a | -A | -v | -V | -x
.LP
trans -f | -F [-site] file... | directory
.LP
trans -p | -P | -t | -T [-site] file | directory [e-mail...]
.LP
trans -k | -K [-site] directory file...
.LP
trans -n | -N [-site] file [e-mail...]
.LP
trans -z | -Z [-site] directory file [e-mail...]
.LP
trans -b | -B | -D | -e | -E | -g | -G | -h | -l | -L | -U keyword
.LP
trans -c | -s [-site] all | keyword
.LP
trans -d | -i all | keyword
.LP
trans -m keyword e-mail...
.LP
trans -r [file]
.LP
trans -R WBI User ID [Active Directory Password]
.LP
trans -1 | -u [-site] WBI User ID
.PD
.LP

.SH DESCRIPTION
Transcend (Transfer/Send Data) is the NXP's Managed File Transfer solution. 
It is widely used by R&D, Applications Engineering and Marketing teams 
to exchange information. While primarily focused on the Linux environment, clients 
are also available for Windows, Solaris and the Web. In production for many years, 
users tend to find transcend more convenient than ftp, scp, or rsync solutions for
data exchange and around 20,000 transfers per month are performed using the tool.
Secure data repositories are distributed world-wide to optimize data posting and 
retrieval. 
.sp
To handle the increasing number of Transcend transactions
and to provide faster data transfer throughout the world,
multiple Transcend repositories are present.
Repositories are present in Austin, Munich, Noida, and DTMS.
During data transfer, the default repository is set to the server nearest to
the user's site. The user can specify an alternate repository in the .transrc file
or with an option on the command line.
.sp
Two types of Transcend commands are provided - basic commands and advanced commands.
The basic commands allow users to put, get, delete, and view information about specified files.
The advanced commands provide additional features requested by users.
.SH BASIC COMMAND OPTIONS
.TP
Calling with no arguments prints a help screen.
.TP
.B \-a
Print a help screen for advanced commands.
.TP
.B \-A
Display advanced put/get options.
.TP
.B \-d " keyword | all"
Delete file or directory associated with the specified keyword.  This
command is executed after all users have retrieved a copy of the data.
If one of the users with the file keyword does not delete the data, it
is automatically deleted three working days after it was transcended
thus keeping the disk free for the transfer of other large files.
If the customer types 'trans -d all', data for all keywords the user
has transferred to the Transcend repository is deleted.
.TP
.B \-g " keyword"
Retrieve the file or directory from Transcend
associated with the specified keyword.
Data retrieved is placed in the user's current working directory.
If the data is already present, the user is asked if he wants to overwrite
the existing data.
.TP
.B \-h " keyword"
Retrieve history for file or directory associated with the specified
keyword.  A summary of all commands performed on the data is shown.
History can be retrieved for up to two weeks after the
expiration date of a file or directory.
.TP
.B \-i " all | keyword"
Retrieve information about a file or directory associated with the
specified keyword.  Information retrieved includes file name, size,
creator, date transcended, expiration date,
data type, platform, and site.
If the customer types 'trans -i all', a list of keywords for data the customer has
transferred to the Transcend repository is shown.
.TP
.B \-p " [-site] file | directory [e-mail...]"
Put a file or directory in the Transcend repository.
Transcend repositories are present in Austin, Munich, Noida, and DTMS.
During data transfer, the default site is set to the server nearest to the customer's site.
To specify a specific Transcend site,
use the abbreviations
\-aus',  '-mun', '-idc', and '-dtms'
for the Austin,  Munich, Noida, and DTMS  sites respectively.
.sp
Files, directories, and groups of files of any size may be transferred.
Files   are   compressed   during   data  transfer  and
uncompressed during data  retrieval.   Directories  are
tarred   and   compressed   during  data  transfer  and
uncompressed and untarred during data retrieval.
.sp
After data transfer,  the user is given a randomly generated
9 character file keyword  he  can  give  to  any
user[s]  wishing  to retrieve the data.  If one or more
e-mail addresses are specified, a personal secure keyword is sent
to  the specified e-mail addresses.  Personal secure keywords are
valid only for the users who receive  them  via  e-mail.
Both  file  and  secure  keywords  contain 4 lower case
alphabetic characters (a-z), followed by  four  numeric
characters  (0-9),  and  terminated  with an alphabetic
character.
The ninth character for file keywords is a lower case letter
and an upper case letter for secure keywords.
.sp
During directory transfer,  gtar or gnutar is used  to
bundle/unbundle the data if it is present on the user's
machine.  Otherwise, tar is used.    Incompatibilities
are sometimes present if the sender of the
data has gtar installed on their machine,  and
the receiver does not.
The receiver can avoid incompatibilities by
installing gtar
on his machine.  Customers may also force the
use of tar instead of gtar by using the '-pt' and '-gt'
options when putting and getting data respectively.
.SH ADVANCED COMMAND OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-1 [-site] WBI User ID
Display information about
NXP customers with an entry in the LDAP directory.
Data displayed includes name, phone,  department,  etc.
This command is identical to the 'User command' with
the exception that registered Transcend sites are not
displayed.   This command runs faster than the 'User
command' because time to look up the user in the Transcend
registry is eliminated.
.TP
.B \-b " keyword"
Retrieve list of files in directory associated with specified keyword.
.TP
.B \-B " keyword"
Display list of files in directory associated with specified keyword.
.TP
.B \-c " [-site] all | keyword"
Cancel previously set e-mail notification.
If a keyword is given, e-mail notification is cancelled only
for the file or directory associated with the keyword.
If the word 'all' is used,
e-mail notification is cancelled for all files the user has placed in Transcend except
those for which e-mail notification has been explicitly set using the file keyword.
.TP
.B \-C " WBI User ID"
Display e-mail address and name for specified WBI User ID.
.TP
.B \-D " keyword"
Set delete lock for file or directory associated with the specified keyword.
Only the user who transcended the data, referred to as the owner,  can use this option.
When the delete lock is set,
no one except the owner
can delete the data.
This option is useful when a user is distributing data to more than one customer
and wants to prevent the customers
from deleting the data before all of the customers have
retrieved the data.
However, even with the delete lock set,
the data is still deleted by the Transcend audits
when the expiration date is reached.
.TP
.B \-e " keyword [days]"
Extend the expiration date on a file or directory associated with the specified keyword  one to three
additional working days.
If the user does not enter a value for days on the command line,
he is prompted for a value.
.TP
.B \-E " keyword"
Cancel delete lock for the file or directory
associated with the specified keyword.
Only the user who transcended the data, referred to as the owner,  can cancel the delete lock.
This option is used when the owner no longer needs to
protect data from being deleted
by other users.
.TP
.B \-f " [-site] file... | directory..."
Put files or directories listed on the command line into the Transcend repository.
The files and directories are tarred and compressed during data transfer and untarred and uncompressed during data retrieval.
The data is put in the receiving user's current working directory
as separate files
and directories.
Wild cards can be used to specify the  file and directory  names.
.LP
.TP
.B \-F " [-site] file... | directory..."
Put multiple files or directories in the Transcend repository and delete after the first successful retrieval.
The files are tarred and compressed during data transfer and untarred and uncompressed during data retrieval.
The files and directories are put in the receiving user's current working directory
as separate files and directories.
Wild cards can be used to specify the file and directory names.
.TP
.B \-G " keyword"
Get the file or directory from Transcend
associated with the specified keyword
and delete from Transcend after the current retrieval.
.TP
.B \-H " -command"
Display detailed help for specified command i.e. 'trans -H -p'
.TP
.B \-I
Display defined iCAP classifications.
.TP
.B \-j " e-mail justification"
Just request approval for an external customer. The customer's e-mail address and the justification for the approval are passed on the command line.
The request is submitted to the EDC system and can be approved by the user's manager.
.TP
.B \-J " keyword"
Retrieve file or directory name for the
specified keyword.
.TP
.B \-k " [-site] directory file..."
Package files listed on the command line into a directory and put the directory
in the Transcend repository.
This option is like the -f option except the files are bundled together in a directory
during data transfer and are retrieved in the directory during data retrieval.
The directory the files are placed in is a symbolic
directory and does not need to be present on the user's disk.
Wild cards can be used to specify the file names.
Only files can be placed in the directory.
Other directories cannot be included.
.TP
.B \-K " [-site] directory file..."
Package files in specified directory, transcend the directory,
and delete after the first successful retrieval.
This option is like the -F option except the files are bundled together in a directory
during data transfer and are retrieved in the directory during data retrieval.
The directory the files are placed in is a symbolic
directory and does not need to be present on the user's disk.
Wild cards can be used to specify the file names.
Only files can be placed in the directory.
Other directories cannot be included.
.TP
.B \-l " keyword"
Display original, compressed, and stored file length
of file or directory associated with the keyword.
This option provides a method for the user to verify
data in the Transcend repository is the correct size.
If the compressed and stored data size are 0,
the data was not successfully transferred.
.TP
.B \-L " keyword"
Lock data to prevent retrieval.
This command is useful when the user has placed a file/directory in Transcend
and wants to wait for a period of time before allowing other users to retrieve the data.
.TP
.B \-m " keyword e-mail..."
Mail multiple users a 9 character personal secure keyword for the file or directory associated with the specified keyword.
Each user is specified by his friendly NXP e-mail address i.e. transbug@nxp.com.
The personal secure keywords sent to users may only be used by the user who receives the keyword.
Secure keywords may be used to perform all transactions file keywords are used for.
Secure keywords can be sent using the -N, -P, -T, -Z, -n, -p, -t, and -z options.
.TP
.B \-M
Release shared memory blocks no longer being used.
This command is executed to clean up shared memory not
properly released when parallel data transfers are
aborted or interrupted.
.TP
.B \-n " [-site] file [e-mail...]"
Transcend files listed in the named file.
This option is like the -f option except
the file names are listed in a file rather than on the command line.
Names within the file must be put on separate lines.
Blank lines cannot be present in the file.
Wild cards cannot be used within the file,
and directory names cannot be included.
Secure keywords may be sent to multiple users (see the -m option).
.TP
.B \-N " [-site] file [e-mail...]"
Transfer files listed in the named file and delete after
the first successful retrieval.
This option is like the -F option except
the file names are listed in a file rather than on the command line.
Names within the file must be put on separate lines.
Blank lines cannot be present in the file.
Wild cards cannot be used within the file,
and directory names cannot be included.
Secure keywords may be sent to multiple users (see the -m option).
.TP
.B \-o " [-site] "
Obtain user's registration status.
This option is useful when the user wants to see if he is registered without performing registration.
.TP
.B \-O " [-company] file | directory [e-mail...]"
Transfer duplicate files to the mask shop. Checks are in place to prevent duplicate files from being sent to the mask shop.
Using this option overrides the checks in place and allows duplicate files to be transferred.
.TP
.B \-P " [-site] file | directory [e-mail...]"
Put a file or directory in Transcend and delete after the first successful retrieval.
This option is used when a file will be retrieved by only one user.
.TP
.B \-q | -ql " [-site] | [all]"
Display list of file keywords for data user has uploaded to the
Transcend repository.  If a site is not specified, keywords for
the closest site are shown.
If the site is set to 'all', keywords for all sites are displayed.
The list of keywords is shown in
reverse chronological order, and the symbol '+' or '-' indicates
if the file data is still present in the repository.  If the -ql
option is used, a long list of file keywords for data the user
has uploaded is displayed.  This list includes a history of
transactions performed for each keyword.
If the user has write
permission in his current working directory, the list of key-
words is saved in a file called 'file_keywords'.
.TP
.B \-Q | -Ql " [-site] | [all]"
display list of personal secure keywords received from other
users.  If a site is not specified, keywords for the closest
site are shown.
If the site is set to 'all', keywords for all sites are displayed.
The list of keywords is shown in reverse
chronological order, and the symbol '+' or '-' indicates if the
file data is still present in the repository.  If the -Ql option
is used, the list of secure keywords includes a history of
transactions performed for each keyword .  If the user has write
permission in his current working directory, the list of keywords
is saved in a file called 'secure_keywords'.  Only secure
keywords for the user's registered e-mail address are shown.
Secure keywords sent to other users are not displayed.  This
feature is useful when the user has lost or has not received e-
mail messages with secure keywords from other users.
.TP
.B \-r " [[release] | [documentation]]"
Display list of commands used to retrieve Transcend releases
and documents.
Transcend is available on the following platforms:
Solaris, Linux, MacOS X, and Windows.
.TP
.B \-R " [-site] WBI User ID [Directory Password]"
Perform Transcend registration.
This option is useful when a user wants to register
without executing another Transcend command.
If the user does not enter his Active directory Password on the command line,
he is prompted for the password, and the password is not echoed to the screen.
.TP
.B \-s " [-site] all | keyword"
Set e-mail notification for one or more files.
When e-mail notification is set,
the user receives e-mail each time one  of his files is retrieved from Transcend.
If a keyword is used, e-mail notification is set only for the associated data.
If the word 'all' is used,
e-mail notification is set for all of the user's data.
The user may set Email notification only for data he has transcended.
.TP
.B \-S
View status of Transcend/InterCom servers.  This command is used by the GUI to verify supported servers are active.
.TP
.B \-t " [-site] file | directory [e-mail]"
Tar a directory tree following symbolic links and
transfer to the Transcend repository.
This option is different from the '-p' option because symbolic links are not
followed with the '-P' option.
.TP
.B \-T " [-site] directory [e-mail...]"
Tar a directory tree following symbolic links, transfer to the Transcend repository,
and delete after the first successful retrieval.
This option is different from the -P option because symbolic links are not
followed with the -P option.
.TP
.B \-u " [-site] WBI User ID"
Display information about user retrieved from LDAP directory.
The user's name, e-mail address, telephone number, department, location code, and mail drop are displayed.
Registered Transcend sites are also shown.
If the user is not present in the LDAP directory,
no information is returned
even if the user is a registered Transcend user.
.TP
.B \-U " keyword"
Unlock data to allow data retrieval.
This option is used to unlock data previously locked
for retrieval with the '-L' option.
.TP
.B \-v " [-site]"
Display program version, default server machine, local machine, Transcend log directory, etc.
If a site is specified, information about the site is shown.
.TP
.B \-V " [site]"
View list of personal secure keywords received.
If a site is specified, keywords are shown for that site.
Otherwise, keywords are displayed for the site closest to the user.
If the user  has write  permission in his current working directory, the
list  of  keywords  is   saved   in   a   file   called 'secure_keywords'.   Only  secure  keywords  associated
with the user's registered  e-mail  address  are  shown.
Secure  keywords  sent  to  other  users are not shown.
This feature is useful when the user has  lost  or  has
not  received  e-mail messages with secure keywords from
other users.
This option is identical to the -Q option.
.TP
.B \-w " [-site]"
Ping dropbox machine to verify it is alive.
.TP
.B \-W " [-site]"
Silent ping to dropbox machine.
Historically, this option was used to keep VPN tunnels alive.
Since VPN tunnels are no longer used, this command is rarely used.
.TP
.B \-x
Display Transcend sites and external companies.
The company name and site abbreviation are shown.
.TP
.B \-X
Display defined  Transcend/InterCom server repositories.
Currently defined server repositories include Austin, Munich, Noida, DTMS, External TransWeb Customer, Send2foundry, and ITAR.
.TP
.BI \-x "
Display defined Transcend sites"
.br
The site name and site abbreviation are shown.
Currently defined sites include:  Austin, Munich, Noida, DTMS, External TransWeb Customer, Send2Foundry, and ITAR.
.TP
.B \-y " customer-e-mail "
Approve external customer to retrieve data from NXP.
.TP
.B \-z " [-site] directory file [e-mail...]"
Zip/package files listed in the named file into a directory
and transfer to the Transcend repository.
This option is like the -k option except the file names are listed
in a file instead of on the command line.
Names within the file must be put on separate lines.
Blank lines cannot be present in the file.
Wild cards cannot be used within the file,
and directory names cannot be included.
Like the -k option,
the files are bundled together in a directory
during data transfer and retrieved in the directory
during data retrieval.
Secure keywords may be sent to multiple users (see the -m option).
.TP
.B \-Z " [-site] directory file [e-mail...]"
Zip/package listed files into the specified directory, transcend the directory,
and delete after the first successful retrieval.
This option is like the -K option except
the file names are listed in a file rather than on the command line.
Names within the file must be put on separate lines.
Blank lines cannot be present in the file.
Wild cards cannot be used within the file,
and directory names cannot be included.
Secure keywords can be sent to multiple users (see the -m option).
.SH PARALLEL DATA TRANSFER
.sp
Parallel upload/download of zipped files
was added in version 7.0 of Transcend.
Parallel transfer is automaticly done for files greater than 100 Mb in size.
Parallel transfer provides a 1-6X increase in transfer speeds.
The increase in transfer speed is dependent on the machine the Transcend client is running on, the repository data is being transferred to,
the band width of the data line,
and the network load.
.sp
Customers can force uploads of files and directories   to be done with parallel or serial transfer using the -pl and -ps options respectively.
Parallel upload is not done for files less than 5 Mb in size even if specified on the command line.
The size for performing parallel upload can also be set in the .transrc file.
A sample .transrc file which sets the size to 10 Mb can be retrieved with Transcend by typing 'trans -r .transrc'.
.sp
During parallel upload,
10 client processes simultaneously read from the file being transferred and send the data to the server.
On the server 10 processes simultaneously read the data and write it to the file being uploaded.
The reverse process is performed when data is retrieved.
To verify data integrity,
byte checksums are calculated by the client and server as the data is transferred.
If the checksum or file size is not correct,
the file transferred is deleted,
and an error message is displayed to the user.
.sp
Shared memory is used when parallel transfers are performed.
The shared memory is released when transfer completes.
Sometimes shared memory is not properly released for some error conditions.
To view the shared memory in use,
type 'ipcs'.
To release any shared memory in use, type 'trans -M'.
.LP
.SH DATA ENCRYPTION
.sp
Data encryption with SSL was added in version 8.0 of Transcend.
All data transferred using version 8.0 or later versions  of Transcend is automaticly
encrypted as it travels across the network.
Data stored in the Transcend data repositories is not encrypted,
and the data is not encrypted
after it is retrieved and written to the user's disk.
Data encryption was added
to provide increased security and meet Export control regulations.
The Austin and DTMS Transcend servers are Export Control compliant.
.LP
.SH REGISTRATION
.sp
In order to use Transcend,
the user must be a registered Transcend user.
The first time a user  runs Transcend,
auto registration is attempted.
The user is prompted for his user ID  (WBI User ID)
and his Active Directory Password (web password).
If the user enters a correct User  ID
and Active directory Password
in the NXP LDAP directory,
the user is registered.
If registration is not successful,
the user must obtain a WBI User ID and Central Directory Password.
.sp
To prevent users from entering identification each time they
use Transcend,
users are registered by their site -
their login name and the first three octets of their IP node address.
The user's site uniquely identifies him,
and the Transcend client knows the user's site without
user input.
If a user runs Transcend on a different network
or using a different login,
he must register to use Transcend at the new site.
.SH TRANSCEND CONFIGURATION FILE
.sp
Users can configure
some Transcend options using a configuration file stored in their home directory
The configuration file is optional,
and default settings are used if it is not present.
named .transrc.
Options which can be configured include:
.IP -
Default Transcend site.
.IP -
Directory the trans.log file is placed in.
.IP -
Type of feedback to the user during data transfer, via size or time.
.SH INSTALLATION
.sp
The Transcend client (trans) resides on the user's disk or computer ring.
For Unix platforms, the software is present in /usr/fsl/bin and in the MTR.
The current package name is fs-transcend-/9.1.
Releases can also be retrieved from our web site - http://transcend.freescale.net
For the Windows GUI, the executable is simply placed on the user's machine.
No other installation is needed.
For the Windows command line three DLL files  are needed with the Transcend executable file.
These files should be placed in a system directory
or in a directory in the user's path.
.SH CONTACTS
To obtain a copy of Transcend,
obtain help with Transcend registration,
or for technical questions, please contact Transcend team (transbug@nxp.com).
You can also retrieve copies of Transcend
and Transcend documentation at web site http://transcend.freescale.net
